We're talking about this thing and
I was kinda hoping to take you
through all the parts of it basically.
You start with a unit test,
you do test-driven development.
We did issues that arise
with components and
being able to mock, and
how do you mock things?
And then, what you run over
kinda tooling you would do.
And then we went up from there, said,
okay, so let's say you have a component
that's actually a visual component,
how would you test that?
And we looked at storybook,
then we went into a playwright,
which is end-to-end testing.
And there we talked about
not just how to test it,
but also the importance of having
page objects, so that you can use
the page objects as a way to simplify
the interface to the to the user.
Because on end of the day,
the thing that matters for
the test is not that the test is running,
is that the test is readable, right?
Because it's a form of communication,
it's a form of documentation.
It's a form of, if a new person comes into
your team you can point them to the test
and say, look if you read these examples,
your brain will be able to see
a bunch of concrete things.
And then, you can generalize into what the
system actually does and how it does it.
And so the main point of this was
to show you different strategies
you can use when writing or
testing your application.
And the pattern that was consistent across
them all is that you wanna be able to
get hold of your dependencies, right?
Dependencies is how you make sure that
you can unit test it, whether it's
dependencies in the form of a unit test or
it's a dependency in terms of a database.
Whatever level you're testing on,
it's the dependencies that
allow you to make sure that you don't
have too much on hand all at once,
and you can just focus
on the individual piece.
So with that, questions?
Mark.
>> So when approaching a legacy code base,
would you start with
the playwright test and then try to
work backwards down to unit tests?
>> Yes, so if you have a legacy code base,
you really have only one choice to
kinda get started, which is to do
the playwright, the end-to-end test.
And as you do that, then you slowly
figure out ways to say, hey,
maybe I can get the database running
in the local environment, and
I can get some sample database set in
there that I can write the test for.
Maybe I have a unit test
that I need to write.
Maybe I can refactor
a part of the application.
But before I refactor the part of the
application to make sure it's testable,
I will write a playwright end-to-end
test that covers this particular area so
that I will not do some
kind of obvious mistake.
And so you wanna iteratively go at it over
time until you have enough end-to-end
tests to kinda have reasonable
feeling that you can refactor bits.
But at the same time, you wanna come
at it from the unit test side and
verify individual pieces together,
and then hopefully over time
the application can be refactored in the
state that makes it easier to unit test.
I think you had a hand up.
>> Yeah, so I have a question about
the nested constructor pattern.
So the anti-pattern you talked about,
constructor within the constructor.
So let's say if I have a colleague
who doesn't believe in testing,
how else would I convince him that
a anti-pattern and shouldn't be the way?
>> I think it's, like in my general
argument with people is that
the code that is testable is better
code because it's more decoupled.
The example of a house instantiating its
bedroom, that's a fixed code, right?
You have exactly one kinda
bedroom that's in there and
there is nothing else that you can do.
But if you can pass dependencies in, then
you can use the house with a big bedroom,
a small bedroom, or multiple ones,
or whatever, right?
You have choices, and
I think you should agree with me that
choices is a form of freedom
that you wanna have.
These choices are helpful because
it allow you to do more things.
So to me, whenever I argue for
testability,
the thing I'm really arguing
over is that I wanna have
a code base that is more flexible so
that I can instantiate
it in the ways that are useful for
unit test, right?
And I don't think anybody will argue
that having the freedom to configure
the system in more ways is a bad thing.
Typically, people will agree that
flexibility is a good thing, right?
You wanna make sure that you can use
the same code in a lot of different ways.
And so having things fixed and difficult
to do makes it kind of hard, right?
The other thing is once you write
a unit test where you have a house
where you inject a bedroom, and
so instead of instantiating,
you inject it, it is very difficult for
somebody to undo that
because the only way they can undo
it would be to delete your test.
Because your test kinda
is insisting on look,
I need to be able to instantiate
this with a fake bedroom.
If you're gonna refactor it,
fine, do whatever you want, but
you have to retain me the right to
configure it with a different thing.
And so it becomes extremely difficult for
people then to do something that
is non-configurable because that
immediately means that that test
that's already written will not work.
So once you fight the battle and get one
test in that is able to extricate a piece
of code inside of its unit test by itself,
it is extremely difficult for
the rest of the developers
on a team to regress,
because regressing would mean
that they would break the test.
And I'm pretty sure that nobody is gonna
just blatantly delete the test, right,
hopefully, that's not
a thing that would happen.
>> Is there a catchy rule of thumb for
when to write a unit test?
>> A catchy rule of thumb.
Pretty much always, right?
[LAUGH] But I'm not sure if I
have a catchy slogan for it.
>> When in doubt, unit test.
>> Before you rest, write your tests.
>> There you go.
>> [LAUGH] I like that,
PK with a slam dunk, all right.
With that, I think we're done.
So thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]